Is 160 Years Long Enough for You?

DATE: 2026-07-12

MAIN MESSAGE

Our family has thought a lot about life and death this week as Misako's
dear father slipped into eternity early Tuesday morning.

And then, an interesting young man caught my attention.

Bryan Johnson is a tech entrepreneur and self-described “biohacker” who
is very famous for his radical pursuit of longevity.

He spends millions of dollars each year on an extreme regimen of diet,
exercise, sleep optimization, medical testing, and experimental
treatments.

Everything he does is designed to slow or reverse the aging process.

His bold and publically stated goal is to live to 160 years old by
pushing the boundaries of human lifespan as far as science will allow.

His efforts reflect discipline and amazing self-control.

His vision appears to be a longing to escape death, to control time, and
to secure life on his own terms.

Do you think he'll make it to 160?

If I was a betting gentleman, I'd bet everything I have he doesn't get
anywhere close to 160 years of life on earth because in Luke 12 his
noteworthy dream crashes on the rocks of Scriptural truth.

Jesus dismantles the illusion of control when He asks: “Can all your
worries add a single moment to your life? And if worry can’t accomplish
a little thing like that, what’s the use of worrying over bigger
things?” (Luke 12:25–26)

Think beyond merely 'worry' to the broader assumption that human effort
can ultimately secure human life.

If humans cannot add even a single moment to our lifespan through
anxiety, planning, or effort, then the idea that we can engineer decades
beyond God’s appointed lifespan begins to look deeply misguided.

No level of wealth or discipline can override God's sovereignty over
life and death.

Bryan Johnson’s project, for all its sophistication, rests on the
fragile foundation of belief that life is ours to extend indefinitely.

But the psalmist reinforces reality with sobering honesty by saying:
“Seventy years are given to us! Some even live to eighty. But even the
best years are filled with pain and trouble; soon they disappear, and we
fly away.” (Psalm 90:10)

Eighty years of life is not a rigid cap on lifespan, but a reflection of
the human condition.

Like it or not, life is short and fragile.

Dr. Iga was remarkably strong to make it to 95 years of age, but even at
its strongest, human life is marked by weakness and suffering.

No amount of optimization can erase the fundamental truth that our
bodies are temporary.

The dream of 160 years is ambitious, but it risks ignoring the deeper
purpose of the years of life each of us are actually given.

Our purpose in life is revealed in the next verse in Psalm 90 when the
writer says to God: Teach us to realize how brief our lives are, so that
we may grow in wisdom. (Psalm 90:12)

Do you realize how crucially important that verse is?

This concept is important in my life because I desperately don't want to
waste my time, energy and other life resources, especially while I have
health and strength and am relatively sound mentally.

The turning point comes when we realize that the highest goal for humans
is not found in trying to stretch our lives out as long as possible.

If you remember one key point from my thoughts today, please understand
how short your life is and live accordingly.

To “number our days” means to live with spiritual intentionality,
recognizing that our time on earth is limited and therefore precious.

And Jesus gives us specific direction for how to use our limited time
and resources when He says: “Don’t store up treasures here on earth,
where moths eat them and rust destroys them, and where thieves break in
and steal. Store your treasures in heaven, where moths and rust cannot
destroy, and thieves do not break in and steal.” (Matthew 6:19–20)

Jesus completely reframes the basic philosophy of normal life which is
to get all you can because you only go around in life one time.

Life is short my friends and it feels to me like I was just recently
trying to figure out what I wanted to do after I graduated from college.

And now, I'm looking around to see where I can get a senior discount.

REFLECTION

So what really matters is not how long we live, but where we invest the
resources God has given us.

We have limited time, limited energy, and limited resources, so how can
we maximize our earthly resources to our greatest eternal profit?

A person who spends their life on earth accumulating wealth and comfort
and preserving youth, may succeed by worldly standards.

But at the end of life, this person will face a painful reality that
they are leaving behind absolutely everything they lived for.

But the person who lives for God by generously investing in God's
kingdom, who loves others, who pursues righteousness and shares the
gospel will face a completely different ending.

When their life comes to a close, they are not sad to be leaving their
treasure behind, but happy as they look forward to what's coming next as
they go to their treasure.

This is the great spiritual perspective Scripture calls us to embrace.

The goal is not to cling to our lives as long as possible, but to
prepare for our lives that will be eternal.

We can't defeat aging, but we can use every passing day as a step toward
something far greater, namely accumulating spiritual treasure.

Nobody is promised 160 years of life, but God does promise something
infinitely better and that is an endless life with a secure treasure.

Real security in life is not found in extending it, but in trusting God,
the One who holds your life in His hand.

A bio-hackers' vision is ultimately about control, but the Bible’s
vision is about surrender to God's will.

And through surrender to God's will, there is far greater hope... and
joy, and love and peace.

The key question is not, “How long can you live?” but “What are you
living for?”

Align your daily priorities with God's purposes and you can trust God to
provide for your need.

Seek first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness and everything,
everything will be added unto you. (Matthew 6:33)

Amen - let's pray.

# PRAYER

We thank You our God and Father for Your love and care for us.

May we live by faith to believe every promise You give us in Your Word.

Give us the spiritual perspective to strongly pursue things in life with
an eternal, spiritual benefit.

Help us to hold loosely to things in life that are temporary even though
they look so good and seem so valuable now.

In Jesus' name we pray with thanksgiving,

Amen.

BIBLE REFERENCES

Luke 12:25–26
Psalm 90:10
Psalm 90:12
Matthew 6:19–20
Matthew 6:33
