God’s Faithfulness Knows No Borders

DATE: 2026-07-05

MAIN MESSAGE

What a blessing it was to have just heard Hono's powerful testimony
about her year studying abroad.

She left familiar Japan to step into a foreign land with strange
customs, unfamiliar faces, and challenges she could not have
anticipated.

Through it all, I believe the hand of God was guiding, providing, and
sustaining her.

Yet, her story is not unique for it echoes the timeless truth of
Scripture that God’s faithfulness knows no borders.

The book of Genesis tells of the remarkable life of Joseph who was sold
into slavery by his own brothers.

Then, he was carried far from the land of his father into Egypt, a pagan
nation with strange gods and hostile customs.

There, Joseph found himself in a place that must have felt like the end
of every dream he ever had.

Yet the Bible says: “The Lord was with Joseph, so he succeeded in
everything he did as he served in the home of his Egyptian master.
Potiphar noticed this and realized that the Lord was with Joseph, giving
him success in everything he did.” (Genesis 39:2-3)

Even under a foreign master and in a foreign culture, the Lord was with
Joseph.

When false accusation landed Joseph in prison, the Lord was still with
him.

When Joseph stood before Pharaoh interpreting dreams, the Lord was with
him.

Years later, after God elevated Joseph to second-in-command over all
Egypt, he could look back on the betrayal and pain from years in exile.

Considering how he had been mistreated and abused, are you not amazed
how he could lovinging forgive his brothers?

How impressive are his forgiving, faith-building words to his
backstabbing brothers when he said: “You intended to harm me, but God
intended it all for good. He brought me to this position so I could save
the lives of many people.” (Genesis 50:20)

Hono's testimony this morning carries the same fragrance that was on
Joseph.

She went to the very distant land of Bulgaria to study.

You've probably heard of Bulgaria, but what do you really know of this
country?

Probably most of us, exceptHono, don't know very much Bulgaria.

Yet Hono stepped into this foreign environment and faced loneliness,
cultural barriers, academic pressures, and unexpected trials.

And God was with her, giving her new, spiritual friends, strength for
her studies, protection in unfamiliar places, and opportunities to shine
as a light for Christ.

What the enemy may have meant for distraction or discouragement for her,
God intended for good.

I believe God has deepened her faith, enlarged her vision for the world,
and prepared her for even greater usefulness in His kingdom.

If you remember anything today, remember this: the same God who was with
Joseph in Egypt is with every one of His children today.

The psalmist put it powerfully: “I can never escape from your Spirit! I
can never get away from your presence! If I go up to heaven, you are
there; if I go down to the grave, you are there. If I ride the wings of
the morning, if I dwell by the farthest oceans, even there your hand
will guide me, and your strength will support me.” (Psalm 139:7-10)

There are no borders strong enough, no country too far away, and no
foreign city too strange for the presence of our God.

Whether some day you might consider studying abroad or possibly foreign
missions or maybe today you simply feel far from home emotionally or
spiritually - remember the Lord is with you.

This truth should fill us with gratitude and confidence.

At Friendship Church, we emphasize the authority of Scripture and the
need for holy living, but we must never forget that the God of the Bible
is a missionary God.

From the call of Abraham to the Great Commission, our God has always
been sending His people across borders to proclaim His name.

Hono's year abroad may be preparing her - or preparing others through
her - to spiritually reach people the rest of us could never reach.

That was quite impressive for Hono to spend a year abroad - good job
friend.

But infinitely more amazing is that our faithful God did not spare even
His own Son Jesus, but sent Him across the ultimate border from heaven
to earth.

On earth, Jesus lived the perfect life we could not live.

He then died the death we deserved, and in 3 days rose victorious over
sin and death.

If God did not abandon His Son on the cross, keep your faith strong that
He will not abandon you in your trials.

REFLECTION

Whatever comes your way, you can "know that God causes everything to
work together for the good of those who love God and are called
according to his purpose for them.” (Romans 8:28)

Trust God for He has a purpose for His children that spans every nation
and every season of life.

God knows the end from the beginning as He writes a story bigger than
our comfort, greater than our plans, and more glorious than we can
imagine.

With fresh gratitude, I thank God for His faithfulness to Hono.

And I thank God for every answered prayer, every provision, and every
moment He made His presence known in our lives as well.

May we commit ourselves anew to God's purposes.

Please remember to faithfully pray for Bruce, Ravi and Jeffry, Erlyn and
others serving Christ in hard places.

Generously use your resources to support gospel ministries building the
Kingdom of God in various nations.

Whether God calls you to stay in Izumo or go serve Him far away
somewhere, determine to live faithfully as Joseph did.

Be faithful wherever the Lord puts you, believing that He intends
everything to work together for your good.

Amen, let's close in prayer.

# PRAYER

Our God and Heavenly Father,

Thank you for Your exceptional faithfulness to Joseph and all your
children.

Thank you for bringing Hono safely back to Japan.

Your faithfulness knows no borders or limits.

Help us to live with spiritual confidence until Jesus returns.

In Jesus' name I pray,

Amen.

BIBLE REFERENCES

Genesis 39:2–3
Genesis 50:20
Psalm 139:7–10
Romans 8:28
