Prohibition, Perspective, and Promises

DATE: 2026-08-02

MAIN MESSAGE

There are moments in life when fear rises like a tsunami.

Have you ever ridden on the roads of China?

Maybe things have changed since 1988-9, but back then, it was a
harrowing experience like an amusement park ride without the safety
measures.

The center line was an often-ignored reference point as we spent way too
much time on the wrong side as we passed donkey carts and overloaded
vehicles of all kinds.

Many times, we were going right at opposing vehicles and certain death
till our driver would vear away at the very last second.

I should have tripled my life insurance before riding on those roads.

Right before I left China in June, 1989, I made one of the worst
decisions of my life.

A Chinese friend asked if I'd like a ride on his new motorbike.

The bike looked nice, but sure seemed a lot smaller when we both got on
it.

But somehow I still let him drive off - a HUGE mistake!

Boy was I praying and then he decided we needed to pass a bus - I have
no idea why he felt the urge to take that unnecessary risk!

Carrying 2 adults, that bike didn't have nearly the power needed to pass
that bus as a dump truck was bearing down on us all too quickly.

As we inched along the exposed side of that bus, the motorcycle was
giving everything it had to give, but just didn't have enough power to
move any faster and that bus never slowed even a bit to let us pass.

Fear rose in me as I began to think about my death that was soon coming.

Sometimes in life, we will face great foes and we will fear as we wonder
if the battle is too great? or if the enemy is too strong?”

But into that kind of fear, God speaks a word of power and hope.

In 2 Chronicles, Judah faced a terrifying enemy they could not defeat in
their own strength.

King Jehoshaphat called his fearing nation to seek the Lord.

Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jahaziel who said: “This is what
the Lord says: Do not be afraid! Don’t be discouraged by this mighty
army, for the battle is not yours, but God’s.” (2 Chronicles 20:15)

And that is still God’s word for weary, troubled saints today.

The Lord didn't begin by explaining everything but simply by forbidding
fear.

The Prohibition is “Do not be afraid or discouraged.”

That is not a suggestion; it is a command.

God is not saying, “Try to feel less afraid.”

God is saying, “Do not surrender to fear or let fear or discouragement
rule your heart.

Fear may knock at the door, but it does not have to be invited in.

Fear makes our troubles look larger and God look smaller.

Fear tells us we are alone, but the Lord says otherwise.

Fear says, “You can’t,” but God says, “I am with you.”

Fear says, “The battle is yours,” but heaven says, “The battle is Mine.”

The Perspective we should keep is “the battle is not yours, but God’s.”

What a turning point that was for Judah which did not need a bigger
army, a better strategy, or a stronger weapon.

They needed a fresh view of God.

They needed to remember that the Lord of hosts was still on the throne.

The outcome of that battle did not rest on human strength but on divine
faithfulness.

As Christians, we live on a battlefield: “For we are not fighting
against flesh-and-blood enemies, but against evil rulers and authorities
of the unseen world…” (Ephesians 6:12)

So: “Stay alert! Watch out for your great enemy, the devil. He prowls
around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour.” (1 Peter
5:8)

In the Christian life, we do not overcome spiritual battles with mere
human effort.

We do not defeat temptation by willpower alone.

Fear isn't defeated by positive thinking alone - we need the living God.

We need God's truth, His Spirit, His power, and His presence.

King Jehoshaphat and his people were told not to fight in their own
strength.

They stood still and saw what the Lord would do which is still the
posture of faith.

Sometimes God delivers by changing our circumstances or by changing us.

But always, the battle belongs to God.

God gives us several Promises you can claim.

First, God promises His presence.

God says: “I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” (Matthew
28:20)

And: “‘I will never fail you. I will never abandon you.’” (Hebrews 13:5)

Whatever you're facing, you are not facing your trial alone.

The Lord walked with David in the valley of the shadow of death.

The Lord was right there with Daniel in the lions’ den.

And He was with the 3 Hebrew boys in the fire... and He is still right
here with His people.

Second, God promises His peace.

“I am leaving you with a gift - peace of mind and heart. And the peace I
give is a gift the world cannot give.” (John 14:27)

“Don’t worry about anything; instead, pray about everything. Tell God
what you need, and thank him for all he has done.” (Philippians 4:6)

And when you faithfully pray about everything, “Then you will experience
God’s peace, which exceeds anything we can understand.” (Philippians
4:7)

God’s peace is not denial; it is divine calm in the middle of the storm.

Third, God promises His power.

“you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you.” (Acts 1:8)

The same Spirit who spoke to Judah still empowers God’s people today to
witness, endure, obey and stand strong for God.

Fourth, God promises His provision.

“And this same God who takes care of me will supply all your needs from
his glorious riches, which have been given to us in Christ Jesus.”
(Philippians 4:19)

God may not always give us what we want, but He will always give what we
need in accordance with His wisdom and timing.

REFLECTION

Are you facing fear, sickness or temptation today?

Is it family trouble, financial pressure or spiritual weariness?

Then God says: "do not be afraid or discouraged. The battle is not
yours, but mine."

Judah went out the next day and saw an amazing victory completely
brought about by God's power.

They did not have to manufacture the victory but only had to trust the
God and so must we.

Let us obey the prohibition, keep the perspective, and claim the
promises.

Let us stand still in faith and move forward in obedience.

When God goes before us, the outcome is never in doubt.

Amen - let's pray.

# PRAYER

Father, please calm our fears and strengthen our faith.

Give us peace in the storms we face.

Help us to always the battle belongs to You.

May we continually trust Your power and promises.

In Jesus' name we pray,

Amen.

BIBLE REFERENCES

2 Chronicles 20:15
John 14:27
Philippians 4:6
Hebrews 13:5
Ephesians 6:12
Acts 1:8
Philippians 4:19
